# Setting Locale

*WARNING: The following method is tested on Arch. Please consult your distro's documentation before doing anything!*

To set the locale correctly (on Arch),

 * First, make sure that the session locale is not set in another way, e.g., by a script file like `~/.bashrc`, or in `LXQt Session Settings → Environment` — because otherwise, it will interfere with the following procedure.
 * Uncomment the needed locales in `/etc/locale.gen`. Example:
```
en_US.UTF-8 UTF-8
en_CA.UTF-8 UTF-8
```
 * Run `sudo locale-gen` to generate the uncommented locales.
 * Set `LANG` inside `/etc/locale.conf`. Example:
```
LANG=en_US.UTF-8
```
 * Now, create `~/.config/locale.conf` and add session tweaks to it, if any. For example, to keep `LANG=en_US.UTF-8` but to use `en_CA` for the date format, put the following lines in `~/.config/locale.conf`:
```
LANG=en_US.UTF-8
LC_TIME=en_CA.UTF-8
```
 * Log out and log in again to see the effect. For example, with the above vaules, the date columns of PCManFM-Qt will become like this:
 ```
 2025-1-2 1:00 p.m.
 ```

It is recommended to make tweaks locally, although they can also be made globally, inside `/etc/locale.conf`.

Some environment variables that can be tweaked in this way:
```
LC_NUMERIC
LC_TIME
LC_MONETARY
LC_MEASUREMENT
```
### NOTE:

Unfortunately, GUI tools for setting locales may lead to inconsistencies and create problems, especially in non-Qt apps. The most common problems are related to messages like "Locale not supported by C Library" when launching a GTK app; also, XTerm may not work at all.

The root cause of such issues is usually that a region is set in those tools without its corresponding locale being generated by `locale-gen` in the first place.
